When we load the delete article script we're calling the get article function which is in the article
include here we also call this function in the script that shows an individual article and the script
for editing an article this function uses this Eskew L. select star from the article table.
As we learned earlier so that star selects all the columns from the table.
We want to do this when we view an article when we edit it as we need all the columns.
However when we're deleting an article we dont want all these columns.
In fact we only want to check that the record exists with that I.D. So its enough to select only the
I.D. column.
Instead of selecting all the columns with an asterisk are a wildcard.
We can specify a list of columns in the select statement.
So let's add an argument to the get article function that will take a list of the columns we want to
select so that we don't have to change the code where are we calling this.
Let's add a default value to this argument which will select all the columns then let's replace the
hard coded asterisk in the esky you Al with the value of this argument.
So if we don't supply a value for this third argument it will default to selecting all the columns as
before.
Finally let's add this argument to our p-h HP duck comment block like that.
So now in the delete script when we call this function we can pass in the third argument.
So were only selecting the idae instead of all the columns now that were only selecting the idea column
as were not using these variables anyway.
We can get rid of them like that.
In the browser viewing and editing an article still work as before and so does delete.
However this time when we load the delete script we're not retrieving unnecessary data from the database.
You'll probably come across some people who think select star should never be used but you should always
list the columns you want in a select statement.
This is mainly because of performance.
Unless you want to use all the columns select star will be retrieving data you don't need getting data
from the database uses network bandwidth and server memory so you could be slowing your script down
by using resources you don't need.
However I don't think it's all bad.
If you're going to select all the columns anyway then there's no performance difference with using select
star select and a list of all the columns.
Now that we've completed the script for deleting an article we've implemented what's known as krudd
ARE create read update and delete on our article table.
We can create a new article with the new article script read articles with the index and individual
articles scripts update with the edit script and delete with the delete script.
These are the four basic operations that a website normally carries out on tables in the database.